---
layout: post
title: "Honesty, mistakes, and all that"
author: "Pauli Lappi"
categories: journal
tags: [documentation,sample]
---

From the blog [Statistical Modeling, Causal Inference, and Social Science](https://statmodeling.stat.columbia.edu/2020/02/24/vaping-statistics-controversy-update/), a comment by "Clyde Schechter":

> "In published research, we are provided only with summaries of the methods. The many investigator degrees of freedom that go into data cleaning, definition of variables, choice of models, etc. are generally not set out. Yet these are, in fact, the steps that are the most vulnerable to being deliberately or unconsciously manipulated towards a preferred result. There is, after all, only one way to calculate ordinary least squares estimates of a linear regression. But there are numerous ways to choose which variables to put in that regression, and numerous ways to define those variables, etc. Particularly in a world where most effects being estimated are fairly small (the large ones having been well known for a long time), tiny little nudges in the methodology can easily obscure what is really going on or create the impression of something that isn’t really happening.

> For these reasons, it is generally not possible for a consumer of research findings to really know what to make of a published result. That really requires a more detailed review of the raw data and all the management and analysis code than is usually available even to editors and reviewers.

> So, at the end of the day, what is truly required is a culture that promotes honesty and transparency and strongly sanctions violations of those. On top of that, the culture must encourage after-publication criticism and discussion, and reward people who acknowledge and retract their errors and sanction those who stonewall. And since we are all merely human, people should avoid doing research that evaluates things where they have a vested interest (whether financial, ideological, or other). We do not, unfortunately, live in such a world. So a policy of mandatory disclosure of all conflicts of interest, or anything that a cynic might construe as a conflict of interest, is a poor second, but it’s the best we’ve got."

Well said.
